In this lecture we're going to talk about Linux file permissions in the file permissions.
The first 10 characters in the output of ls dash l ls.
By the way is file listing.
If you are in a directory and you just type LS you'll get all the files that are under that directory
is similar to dossers are windows deicer command directory Diyar.
So what.
Ls.
Ill give you a long listing it gives you a little bit more information instead of just the filenames.
So the files the first of these characters is used to indicate the file types or the file type could
be just a hyphen which is a regular file.
It could start with the D which is a directory.
It could start with an L which is a symbolic link could start with the C which is a character device
and it could also start with a dash B are blocked device.
So the next nine characters of the file attributes are called the file mode and represent the read write
and execute permissions of the files owners the files.
Group owner and the rest of the users commonly referred to as the world whereas the read permission
on a file allows the same to be open and read the same permission on a directory allows its contents
to be listed.
If the execute command is also set and here's I have an example.
This is what read write and execute look like.
So up if you are familiar with binary numbers.
If you are familiar with binary numbers you'll have to do the power zero which means one to the power
one which is two to the power 2 which is for you add them up and that's number 7.
Here we have nothing here nothing here.
That means that there is no binary number here but R has a two part too.
So that means there is a 4 so that addition is 4.
Same way here.
So the file permission if this is given to a particular file will be 7:04 for.
That means that the owner has all the permission read write and execute the group owner only has read
permission rest of the world has only read permission as well and we look at it in a minute.
In the system so we are logged into our machine right now.
I'm going to do an ls l and this is what you were talking about seeing the beginning if you have a D.
That's a directory.
If you have a dash only that moves as a regular file.
I don't have an example off a block or character device in it but it will be represented by a b or c
lowercase and if is a symbolic link which we going to talk about later in the course which will be presented
by dasht L.
So we get to for example we are going to take one of our files say say take Faulhaber Faltu.
This Americare So currently that user or the owner has read write bagnio execute.
The group has read no right to rest of the world has read.
No right no exit existing I can make it see my 7 4 4 5 5 2.
And let's see what the permission looks like no less dash it out while too and you can see the permission
is changed now the owner has all three permissions we try to execute the group still has the previous
permissions only read and the rest of the while also only read this is.
And if you further change it let's see smogs 777 file to do any LS.
Gosh A-L a file to know.
Not everybody has all the permissions so this is you'll only do in a situation where you do want everybody
in the group and the rest of the world to have read write and execute to this particular file.
Otherwise this is probably not a good idea to give 7 7 7 2 and 5
OK beside using the numbers.
You can also use characters for instance.
Let's see we have Alastair's.
Well let's pick on file five this time.
So see.
Mom and I want for all of the users to have execute permission on this file.
File 5.
Now let's do it.
LS That scale Bye bye.
And as you can see no owner has read write access.
Eat read write execute group read and execute.
And the rest of the world read and execute.
OK and suppose if I wanted to take away the execute permission for everybody.
C is not a minus X file 5.
And another neat trick if you just went up there in Linux then it'll bring back the command so you don't
have to retype the whole thing again.
So I'm just going to do a bare and up arrow again and enter as you can see my exit queue permission
has gone from all three different kind of yours so you can play around with this would execute as well
as write and read.
Subtract them add them to see how the file is changing and also the octal number 7 4 4 6 4 4 7 7 7.
Try all these different combinations to see what changes you see when you do it.
LS Dashiell.